# llSPS-INT-2130-Predicting-Life-Expectancy-using-Machine-Learning
Predicting Life Expectancy using Machine Learning
Life expectancy is a statistical measure of the average time a human being is expected to live, Life expectancy depends on various factors: Regional variations, Economic Circumstances, Sex Differences, Mental Illnesses, Physical Illnesses, Education, Year of their birth and other demographic factors. This problem statement provides a way to predict average life expectancy of people living in a country when various factors such as year, GDP, education, alcohol intake of people in the country, expenditure on healthcare system and some specific disease related deaths that happened in the country are given. 
This project is to build a model while considering historical data from a period of 2000 to 2015 for all the countries. The model trained in this project will be able to predict the average lifetime of a human being given some input factors .With the help of this project any country is able to predict the expected lifetime of their countrymen and then accordingly take preventive measures to improve on their healthcare measures. This will also help countries in improving a particular field such as GDP ,alcohol intake,etc which have a high impact on a country's life expectancy. 
Good prognostication helps to determine the course of treatment and helps to anticipate the procurement of health care services and facilities, or more broadly: facilitates Advance Care Planning. So this problem statement is aimed at predicting Life Expectancy rate of a country given various features. It predicts the average lifetime of a human being and predicts on the basis of various factors like Regional variations, Economic Circumstances, Sex Differences, Mental Illnesses, Physical Illnesses, Education, Year of their birth and other demographic factors. So the end product will predict the future life expectancy of the person with the help of prior given appropriate matrix of features by the user like current year, GDP, education, alcohol intake of people in the country, expenditure on healthcare system and some specific disease related deaths that happened in the country are given. 


Project Requirements: Python, IBM Cloud, IBM Watson 
Functional Requirements: IBM cloud 
Technical Requirements: ML, WATSON Studio, Python, Node-Red 
Software Requirements: Watson Studio, Node-Red 
Project Deliverables: Smartinternz Internship 
